---
layout: default
---

## Publications and Research Papers

### Summary

My work has generated valuable and impactful research paper outputs. In the last 5 years I have published 40 peer reviewed publications (10 as first or senior author).   
I have also published three major industry and government reports. My Category Normalised Citation Impact (CNCI) for top 5 papers by CNCI in last 3 years is 1.47 indicating a higher than average impact factor. Recently I have published a book chapter on Climate Change and Health that is required reading prescribed to the undergraduate and postgraduate students I teach on that topic.


### Papers 

1. Borchers-Arriagada, et al., ... **Hanigan**, I.C. 2024. "Daily PM2.5 and Seasonal-Trend Decomposition to Identify Extreme Air Pollution Events from 2001 to 2020 for Continental Australia Using a Random Forest Model" Atmosphere 15, no. 11: 1341. https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos15111341
1. Butler, C.D., et al. (2024) “The Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: competing interests and optimism bias [Letter]”. The Lancet. https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(24)01491-0/fulltext
1. Gebremedhin, A.T., Nyadanu, S.D., Hanigan, I.C., Pereira, G. Maternal exposure to bioclimatic stress and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy in Western Australia: identifying potential critical windows of susceptibility. Environ Sci Pollut Res, (2024), doi: 10.1007/s11356-024-34689-6.
1. Hertzog, L., et al., … **Hanigan**, I.C. Suicide Deaths Associated with Climate Change-Induced Heat Anomalies in Australia: A Time-Series Regression Analysis, BMJ Mental Health, 27(1):e301131, (2024), doi: 10.1136/bmjment-2024-301131.
1. Hertzog, L., et al., … **Hanigan**, I.C. Mortality burden attributable to exceptional PM2.5 air pollution events in Australian cities: A health impact assessment, Heliyon, vol. 10, no. 2, (2024), doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24532.
1. Sowden, M.; **Hanigan**, I.C.; Robbins, D.J.V.; Cope, M.; Silver, J.D.; Noonan, J. Characterizing Smoke Haze Events in Australia Using a Hybrid Approach of Satellite-Based Aerosol Optical Depth and Chemical Transport Model. Remote Sens. 2024, 15.
1. Beggs, P. J., Trueck, S., Linnenluecke, M. K., Bambrick, H., Capon, A. G., **Hanigan**, I. C., Arriagada, N. B., Cross, T. J., Friel, S., Green, D., Heenan, M., Jay, O., Kennard, H., Malik, A., McMichael, C., Stevenson, M., Vardoulakis, S., Dang, T. N., Garvey, G., Lovett, R., Matthews, V., Phung, D., Woodward, A. J., Romanello, M. B., Zhang, Y. (2024). The 2023 report of the  MJA  – Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: Sustainability needed in Australia’s health care sector. Medical Journal of Australia, mja2.52245. https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.52245
1. Nicolas Borchers-Arriagada, Stephen Vander Hoorn, Martin Cope, Geoffrey Morgan, Ivan **Hanigan**, Grant Williamson, Fay H. Johnston. (2024). The mortality burden attributable to wood heater smoke particulate matter (PM2.5) in Australia, Science of The Total Environment, Volume 921, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.171069.
1. Lucas Hertzog, Geoffrey G. Morgan, Cassandra Yuen, Karthik Gopi, Gavin F. Pereira, Fay H. Johnston, Martin Cope, Timothy B. Chaston, Aditya Vyas, Sotiris Vardoulakis, Ivan C. *Hanigan*, (2024). Mortality burden attributable to exceptional PM2.5 air pollution events in Australian cities: A health impact assessment, Heliyon,Volume 10, Issue 2, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24532.
1. Xu, R., Yu, P., Liu, Y., Chen, G., Yang, Z., Zhang, Y., Wu, Y., Beggs, P., Zhang, Y., Boocock, J., Ji, F., *Hanigan*, I., Jay O., Bi, P., Vargas, N., Leder, K., Green, D., Quail, K., Huxley, R., Jalaludin, B., Hu, W., Dennekamp, M., Vardoulakis, S., Bone, A., Abrahams, J., Johnston, F., Broome, R., Capon, T., Li, S., Guo, Y., (2023). Climate change, environmental extremes, and human health in Australia: challenges, adaptation strategies, and policy gaps. The Lancet Regional Health - Western Pacific.
1. P Boulter, M Cope, I *Hanigan*, T Chaston, G Morgan, K Kulkarni, J. Noonan and S. Vander Hoorn  (2023) Towards the regulation of non-road diesel emissions in Australia-a national impact pathway model. Air Quality and Climate Change 57 (2), 16-27
1. Stevens H.R., Graham P.L., *Hanigan* I.C., Beggs P.J., (2023) No retreat from the heat; Temperature-related risk of violent assault is increased by being inside. International Journal of Urban Sciences [https://doi.org/10.1080/12265934.2023.2209544](https://doi.org/10.1080/12265934.2023.2209544)
1.	Jegasothy, E. *Hanigan*, I.C.,  Van Buskirk J., Morgan G.G., Jalaludin B., Johnston F.H., Guo Y., Broome, R.A. (2022). Acute health effects of bushfire smoke on mortality in Sydney, Australia, Environment International, doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2022.107684. 
1. Cobbold AT, Crane MA, Knibbs LD, *Hanigan* IC, Greaves SP, Rissel CE. (2022). Perceptions of air quality and concern for health in relation to long-term air pollution exposure, bushfires, and COVID-19 lockdown: A before-and-after study, Journal of Climate Change and Health, DOI:10.1016/j.joclim.2022.100137
1.	Beggs, Paul J, Zhang, Ying, McGushin, Alice, Trueck, Stefan, Linnenluecke, Martina K, Bambrick, Hilary, Capon, Anthony G, Vardoulakis, Sotiris, Green, Donna, Malik, Arunima, Jay, Ollie, Heenan, Maddie, *Hanigan*, Ivan C,  Friel, Sharon, Stevenson, Mark, Johnston, Fay H, McMichael, Celia, Charlson, Fiona, Woodward, Alistair J and Romanello, Marina B. (2022) The 2022 report of the MJA-Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: Australia unprepared and paying the price. MJA. https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.51742
1.	*Hanigan*, Ivan C., and Timothy B. Chaston. ‘Climate Change, Drought and Rural Suicide in New South Wales, Australia: Future Impact Scenario Projections to 2099’. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 19, no. 13 (2022): 7855. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph19137855.
1.	Chaston, T. B., Broome, R. A., Cooper, N., Duck, G., Geromboux, C., Guo, Y., Ji, F., Perkins-Kirkpatrick, S., Zhang, Y., Dissanayake, G. S., Morgan, G. G., & *Hanigan*, I. C. (2022). Mortality burden of heatwaves in Sydney, Australia is exacerbated by the urban heat island and climate change: Can tree cover help mitigate the health impacts? Atmosphere, 13(5). https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos13050714
1.	Standen, Jeffrey C., Jessica Spencer, Grace W. Lee, Joe Van Buskirk, Veronica Matthews, Ivan *Hanigan*, Sinead Boylan, Edward Jegasothy, Matilde Breth-Petersen, and Geoffrey G. Morgan. ‘Aboriginal Population and Climate Change in Australia: Implications for Health and Adaptation Planning’. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 19, no. 12 (2022): 7502. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph19127502
1.	Sadeghi, M, Chaston, T, *Hanigan*, I, de Dear, R, Santamouris, M, Jalaludin, B, Morgan, G. (2022) The health benefits of greening strategies to cool urban environments–A heat health impact method. Building and Environment 207, 108546
1.	Beggs, Zhang, McGushin, Trueck, Linnenluecke, Bambrick, Berry, Jay, Rychetnik, *Hanigan*, Morgan, Guo, Malik, Stevenson, Green, Johnston, McMichael, Hamilton, Capon, (2021) “The 2021 report of the MJA–Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: Australia increasingly out on a limb,” Med. J. Aust., vol. 215, no. 9, pp. 390-392.e22, 2021.
1.	Guo, Y.L., Ampon, R.D., *Hanigan*, I.C., Knibbs, L.D., Geromboux, C., Su, T., Negishi, K., Poulos, L., Morgan, G.G., Marks, G.B., Jalaludin, B. (2021). Relationship between life-time exposure to ambient fine particulate matter and carotid artery intima-media thickness in Australian children aged 11–12 years,” Environ. Pollut., vol. 291, no. April, p. 118072.
1.	Morawska, L., Zhu, T., Liu, N., Amouei Torkmahalleh, M., de Fatima Andrade, M., Barratt, B., Broomandi, P., Buonanno, G. , Belalcazar Ceron, L.C., Chen, J., Cheng, Y., Evans, G., Gavidia, M., Guo, H., *Hanigan*, I.C., Hu, M., Jeong, C.H., Kelly, F, Gallardo, L., Kumar, P., Lyu, X., Mullins, B.J., Nordstrøm, C., Pereira, G., Querol, X., Rojas Roa, N.Y., Russell, A., Thompson, H., Wang, H., Wang, L., Wang, T., Wierzbicka, A., Xue, T., Ye, C.. The state of science on severe air pollution episodes: quantitative and qualitative analysis. Environment International (accepted 22/06/2021).
1.	Howse, E., Crane, M., *Hanigan* I.C., Gunn, L., Crosland, P., Ding, D., Hensher, M., Rychetnik, L. (2021). Air pollution and the noncommunicable disease prevention agenda: opportunities for public health and environmental science. Environmental Research Letters. 2021. https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/abfba0 
1.	*Hanigan*, I.C., Dear, K. B. G., Woodward, A. (2021). Increased ratio of summer to winter deaths due to climate warming in Australia, 1968–2018. Australian & New Zealand Journal of Public Health. https://doi.org/10.1111/1753-6405.13107 
1.	*Hanigan* I.C., Broome RA, Chaston TB, Cope M, Dennekamp M, Heyworth JS, Heathcote K, Horsley JA, Jalaludin B, Jegasothy E, Johnston FH, Knibbs LD, Pereira G, Vardoulakis S, Vander Hoorn S, Morgan GG. (2021). Avoidable Mortality Attributable to Anthropogenic Fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5) in Australia. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 18(1):254. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18010254 
1.	Aragnou E, Watt S, Nguyen Duc H, Cheeseman C, Riley M, Leys J, White S, Salter D, Azzi M, Tzu-Chi Chang L, Morgan G, *Hanigan* I.C. (2021). Dust Transport from Inland Australia and Its Impact on Air Quality and Health on the Eastern Coast of Australia during the February 2019 Dust Storm. Atmosphere. 12(2):141. https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos12020141   
1.	Zhang, Y., Beggs, P.B., McGushin, A., Bambrick, H., Trück, S., *Hanigan*, I.C., Morgan, G.G., Berry, H.L., Linnenluecke, M.K., Johnston, F.H., Capon, A.G., Watts, N. (2020). The 2020 special report of the MJA-Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: lessons learnt from Australia’s ‘Black Summer’. Medical Journal of Australia. 213;11. https://doi.org/_Hlk60324904_Hlk6032490410.5694/mja2.50869
1.	de Jesus A.L., Thompson H., Knibbs L.D., *Hanigan* I.C., De Torres L., Fisher G., Berko H., Morawska L. (2020). Two decades of trends in urban particulate matter concentrations across Australia. Environmental Research. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2020.110021
1.	Larsen, A., *Hanigan*, I.C., Reich, BJ, Qin, Y, Cope, M, Morgan, GG, Rappold, AG. (2020). A deep learning approach to identify smoke plumes in satellite imagery in near-real time for health risk communication. Journal of Exposure Science & Environmental Epidemiology, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41370-020-0246-y 
1.	Stevens H.R., Graham P.L., Beggs P.J., *Hanigan* I.C. (2020). In Cold Weather We Bark, But in Hot Weather We Bite: Patterns in Social Media Anger, Aggressive Behavior, and Temperature. Environment and Behavior. https://doi.org/10.1177/0013916520937455
1.	Vardoulakis S., Jalaludin B., Morgan G.G., *Hanigan* I.C., F.H.  Johnston. (2020) Bushfire smoke: urgent need for a national health protection strategy. Medical Journal of Australia. 212 (8), 349-353. e1 https://dx.doi.org/10.5694/mja2.50511 
1.	Salimi, F., *Hanigan*, I.C., Jalaludin, B., Guo, Y., Rolfe, M., Heyworth, J., Cowie, C., Knibbs, L.D., Cope, M., Marks, G., Morgan, G.G. (2019). Associations between long-term exposure to ambient air pollution and Parkinson’s disease: a cross-sectional study. Neurochemistry International. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuint.2019.104615 
1.	Beggs, P.B., Zhang, Y., Bambrick, H., Berry, H.L., Linnenluecke, M.L., Trück, S., Bi, P., Boylan, S.M., Green, D., Guo, Y., *Hanigan*, I.C., Johnston, F.H., Madden, D.L., Malik, A., Morgan, G.G., Perkins-Kirkpatrick, S., Rychetnik, L., Stevenson, M., Watts, N., Capon, A. (2019). The 2019 report of the MJA-Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: a turbulent year with mixed progress. Medical Journal of Australia. https://dx.doi.org/10.5694/mja2.50405 
1.	Butler, C. D. *Hanigan*, I. C. (Accepted 18 Jul 2019). Anthropogenic climate change and health in the Global South. (A State of the Art (SOA) review invited by the editors). The International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease. https://dx.doi.org/10.5588/ijtld.19.0267 
1.	*Hanigan*, I. C., Chaston, T. B., Hinze, B., Dennekamp, M., Jalaludin, B., Kinfu, Y., Morgan, G. G. (2019). A statistical downscaling approach for generating high spatial resolution health risk maps: a case study of road noise and ischemic heart disease mortality in Melbourne, Australia. International Journal of Health Geographics, 18(1), 20. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12942-019-0184-x 
1.	Edokpolo, B. Allaz-Barnett, N., Irwin, C., Issa, J., Curtis, P., Green, B., *Hanigan*, I.C. Dennekamp, M. (2019) Developing a Conceptual Framework for Environmental Health Tracking in Victoria, Australia. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2019, 16, https://dx.doi.org/10.3390/ijerph16101748 
1.	Cowie, C., Garden, F., Jegasothy, E., Knibbs, L., *Hanigan*, I.C., Morley, D., Hansell, A., Hoek, G, Marks, G. (2019). Comparison of model estimates from an intra-city land use regression model with a national satellite-LUR and a regional Bayesian Maximum Entropy model, in estimating NO 2 for a birth cohort in Sydney, Australia. Environmental Research 174 (2019) 24–34. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2019.03.068 
1.	*Hanigan*, I.C., Rolfe, M. I., Knibbs, L. D., Salimi, F., Cowie, C. T., Heyworth, J., Marks G.B. Guo, Y., Cope, M., Bauman, A., Jalaludin, B., Morgan, G. G. (2019). All-cause mortality and long-term exposure to low level air pollution in the ‘45 and up study’ cohort, Sydney, Australia, 2006–2015. Environment International, 126(December 2018), 762–770. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2019.02.044 
1.	*Hanigan* IC, Morgan GG, Williamson GJ, Salimi F, Henderson SB, Turner MR, Bowman DMJS and Johnston FH. (2018) Extensible Database of Validated Biomass Smoke Events for Health Research. Fire (MDPI), https://dx.doi.org/10.3390/fire1030050 
1.	Zhang Y, Beggs PJ, Bambrick H, Berry HL, Linnenluecke MK, Trueck S, Alders R, Bi P, Boylan SM, Green D, Guo Y, *Hanigan* I.C., Hanna EG, Malik A, Morgan GG, Stevenson M, Tong S, Watts N, Capon AG. The MJA–Lancet Countdown on health and climate change: Australian policy inaction threatens lives. The Medical Journal of Australia 2018;209(11):1.e1- 1.e21. https://dx.doi.org/10.5694/mja18.00789  
1.	Knibbs L, van Donkelaar A, Martin R, Bechle M, Brauer M, Cohen D, Cowie C, Dirgawati M, Guo Y, *Hanigan* I.C., Johnston F, Marks G, Marshall J, Pereira G, Jalaludin B, Heyworth J, Morgan G, Barnett A. 2018, 'Satellite-Based Land-Use Regression for Continental-Scale Long-Term Ambient PM2.5 Exposure Assessment in Australia', Environmental Science & Technology, vol. 52, no. 21, pp. 12445--12455, https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.8b02328 
1.	Salimi F, Morgan G, Rolfe M, Samoli E, Cowie C, *Hanigan* I.C., Knibbs L, Cope M, Johnston F, Guo Y, Marks G, Heyworth J, Jalaludin B. Long-term Exposure to Low Concentrations of Air Pollutants and Hospitalisation for Respiratory Diseases: A Prospective Cohort Study in Australia. Environment International, 2018; 121:415-420. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2018.08.050 
1.	*Hanigan* I.C, Schirmer, J., Nyonsenga, T. (2018) Drought and Distress in Southeastern Australia. EcoHealth, https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-018-1339-0  
1.	*Hanigan*, I.C., Cochrane, T., Davey, R. (2017). Impact of scale of aggregation on associations of cardiovascular hospitalization and socio-economic disadvantage. PLOS One  https://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0188161 
1.	*Hanigan*, I.C., Williamson, GJ, Knibbs, LD, Horsley, J, Rolfe, MI, Cope, M, Barnett, AG, Cowie, CT, Heyworth, JS, Serre, ML, Jalaludin, B, Morgan, GG. (2017). Blending Multiple Nitrogen Dioxide Data Sources for Neighborhood Estimates of Long-Term Exposure for Health Research. Environmental Science & Technology, https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.7b03035  
1.	Yu, Y., Davey, R., Cochrane, T., Learnihan, V., *Hanigan*, I. C., and Bagheri, N. (2017). Neighborhood walkability and hospital treatment costs: A first assessment. Preventive Medicine, 99, 134–139. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ypmed.2017.02.008 
1.	Guru, S., *Hanigan*, I. C., Nguyen, H. A., Burns, E., Stein, J., Blanchard, W., Lindenmayer, D.  Clancy, T. (2016). Development of a cloud-based platform for reproducible science: A case study of an IUCN Red List of Ecosystems Assessment. Ecological Informatics https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2016.08.003 
1.	Powers, J. R., Dobson, A. J., Berry, H. L., Graves, A. M., *Hanigan*, I. C., and Loxton, D. (2015). Lack of association between drought and mental health in a cohort of 45-61 year old rural Australian women. Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health. 39(6):518-23.
1.	Lindenmayer, D.B., Burns, E.L., Tennant, P., Dickman, C.R., Green, P.T., Keith, D., Metcalfe, D.J., Russell-smith, J., Wardle, G.M., Williams, D., Bossard, K., Delacey, C., *Hanigan*, I.C., Bull, C.M., Gillespie, G., Hobbs, R.J., Krebs, C.J., Likens, G.E., Porter, J., & Vardon, M. (2015). Contemplating the future : Acting now on long-term monitoring to answer 2050’s questions. Austral Ecology, 1–12. https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/aec.12207 
1.	O’Brien, L. V., Berry, H. L., Coleman, C., and *Hanigan*, I. C. (2014). Drought as a mental health exposure. Environmental Research, 131: 181-187. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2014.03.014 
1.	Howden, M., Schroeter, S., Crimp, S., & *Hanigan*, I.C. (2014). The changing roles of science in managing Australian droughts: An agricultural perspective. Weather and Climate Extremes, 3, 80–89. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.wace.2014.04.006 
1.	Martin, K. L., *Hanigan*, I. C., Morgan, G. G., Henderson, S. B., and Johnston, F. H. (2013). Air pollution from bushfires and their association with hospital admissions in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong, Australia 1994-2007. Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health, 37(3), 238-243. https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/1753-6405.12065 
1.	Wilson, L. A., Morgan, G., *Hanigan*, I. C., Johnston, F., Abu-Rayya, H., Broome, R., Gaskin, C., and Jalaludin, B. (2013). The impact of heat on mortality and morbidity in the Greater Metropolitan Sydney Region: a case crossover analysis. Environmental Health : A Global Access Science Source, 12(1), 98. https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-069X-12-98 
1.	Johnston, F.H., *Hanigan*, I.C., Henderson, S.B., and Morgan, G.G. (2013). Evaluation of interventions to reduce air pollution from biomass smoke on mortality in Launceston, Australia: retrospective analysis of daily mortality, 1994-2007. BMJ, 346, e8446. https://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmj.e8446 
1.	*Hanigan*, I.C., Butler, C.D., Kokic, P.N. and Hutchinson, M.F. (2012). Suicide and drought in New South Wales, Australia, 1970-2007. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 109(35), 13950-13955. https://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1112965109 
1.	Vally, H., Peel, M., Dowse, G. K., Cameron, S., Codde, J. P., *Hanigan*, I., and Lindsay, M. D. A. (2012). Geographic Information Systems used to describe the link between the risk of Ross River virus infection and proximity to the Leschenault Estuary, WA. Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health, 36(3), 229–235. https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1753-6405.2012.00869.x 
1.	Edwards, F., Dixon, J., Friel, S., Hall, G., Larsen, K., Lockie, S., Wood, B., Lawrence, M., *Hanigan*, I., Hogan, A. & Hattersley, L. (2011). Climate change adaptation at the intersection of food and health. Asia-Pacific Journal of Public Health 23(2 Suppl), 91S–104. https://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1010539510392361 
1.	Johnston, F.J., *Hanigan*, I.C., Henderson, S.B., Morgan, G.G, and Bowman, D.M.J.S. (2011). Extreme air pollution events from bushfires and dust storms and their association with mortality in Sydney, Australia 1994-2007. Environmental Research 111 (6): 811-816. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2011.05.007 
1.	Hall, G. V, *Hanigan*, I. C., Dear, K. B. G., and Vally, H. (2011). The influence of weather on community gastroenteritis in Australia. Epidemiology and Infection, 139(6), 927–936. https://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0950268810001901 
1.	Johnston, F., *Hanigan*, I.C., Henderson, S., Morgan, G., Portner, T., Williamson, G., and Bowman, D. (2011). Creating an integrated historical record of extreme particulate air pollution events in Australian cities from 1994 to 2007. Journal of the Air Waste Management Association, 61(4), 390-398. https://dx.doi.org/10.3155/1047-3289.61.4.390 
1.	Johnston, F. H., *Hanigan*, I. C., & Bowman, D. M. J. S. (2009). Pollen loads and allergic rhinitis in Darwin, Australia: A potential health outcome of the grass-fire cycle. EcoHealth, 6(1), 99–108. https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-009-0225-1 
1.	Bambrick, H. J., Woodruff, R. E., & *Hanigan*, I. C. (2009). Climate change could threaten blood supply by altering the distribution of vector-borne disease: an Australian case-study. Global Health Action. https://dx.doi.org/10.3402/gha.v2i0.2059 
1.	*Hanigan*, I. C., Johnston, F. H., & Morgan, G. G. (2008). Vegetation fire smoke, indigenous status and cardio-respiratory hospital admissions in Darwin, Australia, 1996-2005: a time-series study. Environmental Health : A Global Access Science Source, 7, 42. https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-069X-7-42 
1.	*Hanigan*, I. C., & Johnston, F. H. (2007). Respiratory hospital admissions were associated with ambient airborne pollen in Darwin, Australia, 2004-2005. Clinical and Experimental Allergy, 37(10), 1556–1565. https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2222.2007.02800.x 
1.	Johnston, F. H., Bailie, R. S., Pilotto, L. S., & *Hanigan*, I. C. (2007). Ambient biomass smoke and cardio-respiratory hospital admissions in Darwin, Australia. BMC Public Health, 7(1), 240. https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2458-7-240 
1.	D’Souza, R. M., Bambrick, H. J., Kjellstrom, T. E., Kelsall, L. M., Guest, C. S., & *Hanigan*, I. (2007). Seasonal variation in acute hospital admissions and emergency room presentations among children in the Australian Capital Territory. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health, 43(5), 359–365. https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1754.2007.01080.x 
1.	Nicholls, N., Butler, C. D., & *Hanigan*, I. (2006). Inter-annual rainfall variations and suicide in New South Wales, Australia, 1964-2001. International Journal of Biometeorology, 50(3), 139–143. https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00484-005-0002-y 
1.	*Hanigan*, I., Hall, G., & Dear, K. B. G. (2006). A comparison of methods for calculating population exposure estimates of daily weather for health research. International Journal of Health Geographics, 5(1), 38. https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072X-5-38 
1.	Dear, K., Ranmuthugala, G., Kjellström, T., Skinner, C., & *Hanigan*, I. (2006). Effects of temperature and ozone on daily mortality during the August 2003 heat wave in France. Archives of Environmental & Occupational Health, 60(4), 205–212. https://dx.doi.org/10.3200/AEOH.60.4.205-212 
