---
layout: default
---

## Policy briefs and Contributions to Government Report

- 2025: Several of Ivan Hanigan's co-authored papers were cited and he was acknowledged for providing data, advice and expert review for the Australian Climate Service (2025) Australia’s National Climate Risk Assessment Report. Available at: https://www.acs.gov.au/pages/national-climate-risk-assessment (Released:  15 September 2025) and the technical papers Australian Climate Service (2025) Health and Wellbeing Technical Report. A technical report for the National Climate Risk Assessment. Australian Climate Service, Australia. Available at: https://www.acs.gov.au/documents/f0a66d60bda14d24843953a448b9f9a2/about and Boyle, J. et al. (2025) ‘Air Quality and Communicable Diseases - Technical Report.  Air Quality and Communicable Diseases Technical Report. A technical report prepared for the Australian Climate Service as part of the National Climate Risk Assessment. CSIRO, Australia’. Available at: https://doi.org/10.25919/9NAC-A029
- 2025: Open letter to all Australian Federal election candidates: 
Clean air is a fundamental right for all Australians – but right now, we're falling short. Government responsibility for clean air remains fragmented. The Centre for Safe Air has created an Open Letter to all 2025 Federal Election Candidates calling for a National Clean Air Strategy: https://lnkd.in/gP-cfwXH. Why does this matter? Because investing in clean air isn't just about protecting our environment, it improves public health outcomes related to many chronic illnesses such as asthma, heart disease and cancer while reducing greenhouse gas emissions to secure long-term protection of Australia’s health, economy, and security from worsening climate change impacts. I am proud to be a co-signatory to the Open Letter which has been signed by 14 national peak bodies, research and advocacy organisations including the Heart Foundation, Asthma Australia, Healthy Environments And Lives (HEAL) National Research Network, The Climate Health Alliance and The Curtin University WHO Collaborating Centre for Climate Change and Health Impact Assessment. https://safeair.org.au/open-letter/
- 2010: Bambrick, H., Woodruff, R., & Hanigan, I. (2010). Effective emissions targets needed to protect Australia’s blood supply. The Australia Institute Policy Brief No. 11.
- Drought Policy Review Expert Social Panel 2008, It’s About People: Changing Perspective. A Report to Government by an Expert Social Panel on Dryness Report to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Canberra, September. ISBN 978-0-9803714-7-5 (also known as the Kenny Report)
- 2018: Submission on the review of the National Pollution Inventory (NPI) on behalf of Clean Air and Urban Landscapes (CAUL) Hub and the Centre for Air pollution, energy and health Research (CAR) 10 August 2018. This joint submission to the review of the National Pollution inventory that we submitted 3 weeks ago got picked up by a new site dedicated to env professionals “Footprint news”.
- 2017: Submission to the Productivity Commission Data Availability and Use public inquiry. ‘In support of access to integrated public data for scientific research’. Yohannes Kinfu, Tom Cochrane, Rachel Davey, Ivan Hanigan, Nasser Bagheri 
